Hello and welcome to the Notes app.
This is a really fun app though we're going to create.
It's going to take the things that we learn about Alert dialogs shared preferences menus and put them
all together.
So the basic idea is you're going to have an app where you can save some notes for for example the very
first time you open up I misspelled this but you would have something that says something like example
note and let me just go ahead and change this.
I feel dumb that I didn't get this fixed earlier but look at that.
So we have our example note here that would maybe show up the first time you open the app.
And if you want to edit the note you can always click on it and you know changes say example note is
fun or something like that when you hit the back button.
Those saves have been changed and you can always you know come back make changes.
You can also hit this menu item and add a note.
So maybe we'll just say Hello there.
And look when we hit back.
Now we have the example of those fun and hello there.
If you ever have a note that you no longer like are you treating it as like a To Do list or something
you can always click and hold for a long time which brings up this dialog box says Do you want to delete
this and I'll say yes.
And all sudden it's gone.
And the important thing to note here is with the note app is that if we were to close out of the note
app hit the X there and come back and open it again should save any changes that we have.
So for example you see oh look at say the example note is fun.
And if we have multiple notes those should all be saved inside of there.
So there's going to be a couple of things that you're going to have to learn right.
How do you do the long click listener thing when someone wants to do a long click on a list item.
What are you going to do when someone's making changes to a note right when they're typing here.
How do you make sure you're updating the correct information.
All things that you can learn to Google with.
So that's my challenge for you.
Go ahead and create this app.
If you get stuck needing any help just want to see how why did it you can always come forward and watch
with me.
But please go give that the old college try.
Can't go ahead and hit pause now.
All right so let's go ahead and get started with the notes app.
We're going to start a new Android studio project and I'm going to simply just call it notes and we'll
go ahead and use all our defaults like we have before and get started on this bad boy.
So really the first thing that we want to dive into here first is we want to set up the first activity
so we want to have our list view ready to rock and roll than we want to fill it with the appropriate
information and then we can go about the business of when someone selects one of those that we can go
ahead and move them onto the next screen and all that jazz.
So really everything starts at the first activity.
So I think we should go ahead and dive on the visual side first of actually adding a list view to the
X M-L there and then we can go about the business of setting up our list adapter and all that jazz.
All right.
So this finally loaded up let's give us selves some space to work with.
Want to get rid of this text for you and then I'm going to move down to the containers and bring out
a list view to want this to take up the whole screen and it looks like it's doing a good job so I'm
just going to pin some constraints around the edge here.
I'm going to go ahead and give this an ID of list for you.
All right.
Once we've gone ahead and got down in place let's go ahead and move over to our main activity where
we'll get this all set up.
So step one is we've got to create our list view or at least get access to it.
So we'll name this list for you and say this is equal to find view by the our DOT DOT list view.
Excellent.
Once we have that in place we then need to go create an array list to hold all the notes that we want
to have.
So probably best that we set this up top because we're going to need it in a couple of places so let's
create a new array index out of bounds.
We want array list and this should be of type string because this is going to hold all of our notes
that we're going to have we'll just simply call them notes and say hey this should be a new array list.
Simple as that.
So with that in place let's go ahead and add an example note just to go ahead and get things started.
So we'll say no start ad and we'll maybe just add something as an example.
Note Keong once we've got that in place we've got to set up our array adapter so we'll say array dafter
and we want to just go ahead and call that lower case re adapter and we'll make a new array adapter.
And for that context will pass and this and then want to get to that simple laya which is Android Dot
are lay out datt simple list item 1 and then we have to say what array we're working less with.
So we'll go ahead and pass notes there.
OK what that a chapter in place we just have to take our list view.
And on that same set adapter so we'll go ahead and pass in our array adapter.
So we've done this a million times let's go ahead and get this rolling on the emulator that's going
to take a second to get all set up there.
But you know we can trust that this is probably going to work because all we did was we made an array
with one item in it and we had it show up inside of our list view.
So probably don't need to test that quite yet we can probably safely go ahead and move on to our next
item of business which is when someone selects one of these notes we want to be able to move them on
to the next activity but we don't even have another activity to move on towards.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to save file new and we want a new activity.
And we're just looking for a blank activity doesn't seem to be there so let's go to the gallery.
Empty activity I guess that's what we were looking for.
Now as far as a name for this goes you can choose whatever you'd like but I think something like note
Ed. activity is probably pretty good that describes what should be going on inside of this.
We'll go ahead and build that once we have access to this we want to go ahead and make it so that we
have the correct visual side of this up and running so let's go to our activity note Ed. SML screen
here and inside of this really what we want to do is just fill it with a giant.
So let's go ahead and grab one of these edit texts and bring it down into the app OK.
I will take just a second here to go get the constraint stuff to show up.
Awesome.
So with all of that there we want to go ahead and just add pins to all the sides here and let's just
go ahead and set these numbers so that they are all zero.
OK and that's going to make it so that just stretches everywhere that we need it to.
Those are all zero.
And then let's go ahead and change our constraints until it fills up the entire space.
And look at that.
We get this nice text that goes everywhere.
So with this it already has an idea of added text that's fine soldiers sort of keep that as is with
this now in place though.
Let's go ahead and make it so that we can move now to this activity right.
That was the whole purpose of getting this thing set up.
So we're going to come down here and we need to take our list view and we are going to set the on item
click listener so we're going to say set on item click listener.
And for this we need a new adapter view on item click listener.
Boom it's going to add in all the fancy code for us.
And the big thing that we want to do here now is we want to make an intent that will take us to the
next activity.
So we'll do capital intense and we'll just call it lowercase intent is equal to a new capital intent
where we first want to get the application context and then we're going to take a note.
The thing that we want to move to is note editor activities are going to say that talk class.
And that's telling us where we want this attempt to go.
We should add an extra to the intent to say which particular note it was that was selected.
So we're going to type out lower case content which is that object we just created and when I say Dot
put extra And first we have to give a name to the extra that we're adding here.
And I think maybe just calling it note ID.
So this you know for example is the top one note ID will be zero that will be 1 than 2 right.
So on and so forth.
And then we need to pass for the actual ID or the you know into what they selected So we're going to
pass.
I just right inside of there.
And once we've done that we just simply have to start the activity with that intent.
So let's go ahead and run this and see if we can't move over to that next activity after tapping something
on that list view.
So wait a second here for emulator friend looks like it finally finished up and come in for the first
time we'll get that.
There's our one example no.
And if we click on that boom all of a sudden we are here we've got this nice added text that we can
work with.
That's pretty awesome.
So the one thing that we do want to fix with this though is that you can see the edit text here.
It's kind of has the text in the middle and it be nice if we had that up at the top.
So let's go back into our visual editor here and we want to make some appropriate changes so with the
edit text selected.
Let's go ahead and move over to some more detailed options here.
Scroll down until you find gravity.
And once you find gravity if you extend that down right now it's selected to center vertical.
We want to have at the top and uncheck center vertical and there you can see sort of up to the top left
and we can now appropriately handle that.
OK.
So with that in place we now want to write some code inside of our note editor so that when somebody
selects something for example let me go ahead and hit the back button here.
Right so someone taps on one of these example notes we would want to be able to display the appropriate
information if we needed to over here and this note editor directivity.
So in order to do this let's go ahead and first get access to that.
It takes all say at a text slower case that a text is equal to fine view by ID card Id add a text.
Excellent then with that in place we want to pull out whatever the particular note ideas so we can do
some checking there so let's go get the intent by saying intent is equal to get intent.
All right.
Once we have access to that that we want to pull that particular note Id outsole make a new object called
note ID and this will be equal to our intent dot net.
And this is where we want to get to the end.
So get it extra.
And what we're looking for is lower case capital note Id make sure that this spelling is the exact same
as what you had over here in fact it might be just safe to copy this and paste it there just to confirm
you've got the right thing.
And then we also need to provide a default here in case we don't get the appropriate information through.
So if something you know if this is the case I think what we should do is add a negative one here because
the number that we're going to be passing over it can either be as low as zero.
That because of the first item in an array or it could go up to over many notes we have but if it's
negative one like that's not a number that can be passed through so that's a nice default value that
could warn us like hey something's not going correctly.
So what we'll do is we'll create an if statement in check and see and make sure that something is not
equal to negative one.
That's what we'll do.
I will say if no ID is not equal to negative 1 meaning that you know we didn't have to use our default
value then we can go ahead and take whatever note that was passed to us and we can add it into the edit
text and set that text there.
So we're going to say edit text set text and the text that we want to set it to is whatever we got from
the notes.
Now in order to get access to the notes array from the previous activity what we're going to have to
do is add a static in front of here so that we can access that information.
But with that in place we should be able to say main activity dot notes and let's see this is not coming
through for us.
So we changed this to static Oh I accidentally deleted the array list so it will do frailest like that.
There we go.
This should be much happier now.
So now we can type out notes and say Dot get and we're going to pass in the index of note Id and that'll
pull out the appropriate string and put it inside of the add text.
So let's go ahead and give that a test.
See how that all works out for us.
And so open up our emulator here they're the building all finished and let's say we tap on example note
that it passes over example noted we can you know update some information there.
Now you'll notice the problem is let's say I want to change example note to say example node is cool.
Or something like that.
When I hit the back button it doesn't update the list view here.
So that's sort of our next step is we need to figure out how when someone's making changes to an edit
text that we can appropriately write some code to you know save that information.
Now this was something I had as a challenge for you so again I'm going to show you the process that
I went through to go find this information just by Googling it.
So let's go ahead and open up a web browser.
I'm going to search something like because the main goal here is I want to know how we can run some
code when someone is working with an edit text so maybe will say added text run code when text changed.
OK.
And you may be wondering why didn't I put Android or anything in there.
Edit text is pretty familiar.
Like exclusive to android I think if we had just said like how to change text we maybe would have had
to specify Android but that might be something that helps us out a bit.
So there's a couple of different options on here.
This first one this looks like it might have the most promise or just go ahead and click on this one.
All right let's see what we've got here.
So they're saying OK so what you can do is you can add a text change listener.
And with this you can go ahead and they have some functions.
Yeah I think this is what we're looking for is that after text change before text change and the text
change so that's pretty cool stuff there.
All right.
So let's go ahead and roll with this.
Let's go back to android studio and what we're going to do is after we've done this if statement this
is where we want to be looking for any sort of changes so will first get access to our edit text.
And again just to confirm what we want to do is add text changed listener.
OK.
So let's go back to android studio and say that add text change listener.
Look at that.
That was there and then the thing that we have to pass inside of here was a tech watcher.
Yep.
Text watcher there.
So we're going to say new capital text Wotcher and boom it adds all this excellent code for us about
you know before the text is changed after the text is changed.
Stuff like that but it's really just on text change like if someone has added a new piece of a new character
in there they've deleted something or whatever it is.
This code will get run here.
So this is where we want to do our code to say hey we need to update this information.
So the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to update the array to say hey you know notes
you should have something else inside of here.
So let's get access to that.
Notes are a first main activity notes.
On this we want to say set and we have to specify what index it is that we're trying to change here
and that of course is going to be node ID that we pulled out earlier.
So go ahead and put a note Id inside of there.
Then once we have note Id set the next thing that we want to do is we want to pass forward here.
Capital string dot value of and this is where we're going to use this char sequence in order to turn
this char sequence into a string.
So this is basically the new code thats inside of that edit text so we're going to put char sequence
just like that.
And then once we've changed that array list then we have to tell the array adapter hey you've got new
things so we're going to go to our main activity dot and we try and type out a re adapter it's not there.
So that means we have to take our array adapter and initially set this up top go ahead and do that and
we're going to have to change it to be static.
OK.
And then we'll just get rid of this so we're just setting up the array adapter so that now we can come
and say oh now we get the raid after hey notify data set change that says you know something different
has come through.
You've got to work with this.
So let's go ahead and give that a run.
Make sure that it's working all correctly.
We'll pull up our nice emulator here.
OK so we get the example now.
And I say example note dude exclamation point that the back button look at that is it has now changed
the array list over here that we've called notes so that then it's displaying the appropriate information
if I tap on this again looking at it it's got our new updated information.
So really the next step for us is if someone wants to add a new note it would be nice if we had the
little menu dropdown here that we could say hey add a new note and that'll take us through the process
of creating a new note.
So in order to do that we have to get a menu.
So let's go ahead and bring out our listing of the project and we are going to add our new directory.
So right click.
New directory and I simply want to call that menu then with menu selected We're going to say file new
menu resource file.
Now you can name this whatever you'd like but I'm going to call it add underscored note underscore menu
just like that and make sure that's going into the menu directory.
Will hit OK there and then we get this cool file where we can you know actually add some menu items
inside of here.
So let's go ahead and add an item and we just do that by simply typing the item and then we've got to
set first it's title sort of say Android and let's scroll down for title.
There we go.
So let's go ahead and just call this ad note excellent that we have to set an I.D. for this so we'll
do that out plus I.D. and we're going to add inside of there had their score note and then we can go
ahead and that item.
All right.
So let's go check it out visually it seems fine.
This is going to be a very simple menu but then we need to write the appropriate code to one create
this menu but then also respond when someone taps on the note.
So let's move back to our main activity and we're going to be adding some methods here and I'm going
to put these below diong create it.
It might be good to kind of leave a comment here and say hey the stuff below this is like our menu code.
So what we're going to type on here is first the create menu options menu.
There we go.
So the code that we want to run into here before we return the super stuff you want to create our menu
inflator we'll call menu inflator this is equal to a new low.
Not new.
We want to get menu inflator and then we'll take that menu inflator and then we'll say Dot inflate and
we're going to pass it first.
Our dot menu Dot had no menu.
Right.
That was the one that we added here that makes sense right.
Then we have to pass in one more parameter inside of there.
And that's going to be the actual menu that was passed into here.
So we'll go ahead and put in menu.
All right.
So with that in place we have all the code to create the menu but then we want to write some code to
be able to respond when someone clicks on one of the menu items.
So this is where we do on options item selected.
And in this we're going to go ahead and get rid of the return.
For now we do want the super options item selected but then below what we're going to do before.
I mean we've always done a switch statement.
This might be a use case where we do want to use an IF statement to say hey because there's only one
item let's just make sure it's the right item and then we can move forward.
So let's do a little statement here and what we're going to be checking is the item to get item ID and
see if this is equal to our DOT ID ad note.
OK so if this is the case then this means we have what we want so we're going to want to go ahead and
return true there if this is not the case this is where would we we would return false.
We'll go ahead and put that option there.
Okay.
But assuming we do get the proper thing like what is it that we want to do.
Well we want to do an intent where we move over to the new note activity and we want to start that up.
So let's just go ahead and make a new Intent called intent and this is going to be equal to a new intent.
And we want to go ahead and do our get application context and we're going to have it be a note added
activity class.
And then just go ahead and say start
activity.
This is not coming up for us.
Let's see start activity.
There we go and we pass forward the intent called intent.
All right.
So with this all in place this should when we select that menu item take us over to the next screen
so let's go ahead and try that there you're going to go ahead and hit run
skewed or you later ready to come check this out.
All right.
So finally load up
and come on emulator you can do it.
OK so we're going to hit this little menu item and say add note.
Look at that.
It takes us to a new place.
But check this out.
If we try making some changes we know everything kind of explodes and we can dive into the errors here
and in fact maybe let's do it just so that you can see what the actual area looks like.
Wow it's a big one but it's this array index out of bounds exception.
And take a moment to see if you can figure out what the problem is it's.
Well if we come back to this note editor right we did this if statement to say hey if you know note
ID is negative one as long as it's not negative 1 then you know go ahead and do this tech stuff right.
And then here below whenever we make a change we say hey go to the notes thing and on the index of note
Id go ahead and do this.
If nobody is negative one and you're trying to update a position in the array of negative one that's
where you index out of bounds.
Exception comes you can never have a negative index for an array.
And so that's why this is freaking out so we need to read a little bit of code to talk about the situation
when we moved to this activity and there is no node ID that came forward as an intent.
And so then the default is negative one like how do we handle that.
Well we go ahead and we do an else statement here and the first thing that we do is we go to our main
activity and we get to the notes array and we add a new note inside of there so we add a new empty string
just like this.
And then what we have to do is pick a note ID and really the node ID since we just added a new item
onto there should just be whatever the last item is.
So we're going to take this node ID and we're going to say this is equal to main activity dot notes
and we want to get the size of this.
But then we do have to minus one because for example if it's an array of four items if we set the index
of four that wouldn't be the last index you'd want it to be three because to go 0 1 2 3 and that's how
that all works.
OK.
So you can see we're getting an error here now because it's saying hey you said this entier was called
final and no ID that's not what we want.
So let's go ahead and cut this and we're going to have a note Id set up top here and we'll simply just
say hey update note ID as needed.
As we move through.
OK.
So now that we've got those pieces of information in place let's go ahead and check this out.
We'll run the emulator one more time and hoping here that this will finally give us what we need in
order to show this information.
So here comes the emulator Let's say I want to add something new.
OK.
So you can see this came through with just a name.
And if I type name Nick or something like that we hit the back button.
Ok that works.
It's a little bit not ideal.
And the situation there is if we go to our activity note Ed. The default text inside of there right
now has name.
So if we double click on this and we just make it an empty string I think that'll make it that much
easier to sort of work with.
And we'll be a little bit more intuitive for the user but I mean this essentially is working right like
we can and you know I can change this.
I could delete if I wanted to and say like hello.
If we go back look that's added to the list.
We're in a great place but there's a couple of things missing the big one is that we can't delete an
item right now like if we do a long press on any of these Nothing shows up the idea right you know is
do a long press and then we get the little dialogue says Do you want to delete this.
Yes.
And then we also don't have this permanently stored.
If I go ahead and hit this button here I can close out of the notes app come back to the main screen.
I opened up notes again.
Well look at this.
Everything's gone.
We just have that one example note like we did before.
So in order to fix this let's first make it so that we can delete notes and then we can move forward
from there.
Let's go to our note editor activity and after we've or excuse me the main activity so right now we
have the code for an on item click listener and that's just a single click.
But now we want to add something for when someone does a long click.
So we're going to type out list you dot set on item but instead of click Lisner we want on item long
click listener.
OK so this is when someone taps and holds for a long time.
So with this it's fairly similar.
We're going to do a new adapter view but you can see it says on item long click listener likely it just
auto returns that for us.
That's pretty nice.
And then we get this function inside of here that says On item one click and but this time that some
a little bit interesting is we return true or false with this function and that's saying whether or
not you should allow this long press to happen.
And so in this situation we just want to make sure that we return true or else it's not going to let
our code run so let's just go ahead and leave that at the bottom.
But really the code that we want to run inside of here is you know we want to create a alert dialog
and to present it to the user and say hey do you want to delete this particular note.
And so in order to do that first let's get access to the item it is that we want to delete and that's
this right here.
And you might be thinking Hey we could just go ahead and use i.
But we're actually at a different point going to have a variable called Die and maybe I'll just wait
till that point to show you that.
But just know we're going to run into some issues with naming here.
So let's go ahead and creating new alert dialog.
So a new alert dialog dot builder you guys are becoming pros at this.
We've done this quite a few times and we want to pass in main activity this way.
So that's there let's start adding our no additional details here so the first thing that we got to
do is set the icon so choose that for this one.
Let's go ahead and do lowercase Android Dot are dot drawable dot will do I see dialog alert on this
one.
OK.
The next thing that we want to set here is the titles are they set title and that will maybe just equals
this to say.
Are you sure this is pretty similar to what we had before.
Remember when we made it really dramatic.
But this time when we do set message will be a little bit more specific here will say do you want to
delete this note case or are you getting very specific here like you're about to delete a note.
Is that what you want to do.
So let's set the positive buttons or do dot set positive button.
So this is going to be the situation right that they do want to delete it.
So in this case let's go ahead and provide that the text for that which should just be a simple yes
but then we also need to add a new click.
Listeners are going to say new Capitol dialogue interface on click listener it makes all this great
stuff for us then from here.
What we want to do is go through the business of deleting the note which would dive into the notes array
and get rid of that.
But something that I want to point out here is that you know the item that they selected in the list
view is represented by you and I here.
But then there's also an int i hear that comes through and I'll be honest I'm not exactly sure what
this i represents but it's going to overwrite this one.
So something that we can do to sort of prevent all of this is we can make a new end that we are going
to call maybe item to delete and we'll just set this equal to whatever I is and then this way we can
use this item to delete to get to the appropriate value.
So inside of here we can say you know for example notes that remove OK and we're going to get rid of
whatever item to delete is equal to right because if they tap the first one that will be equal to zero
it will be 1 to whatever.
And once we've done that we want to notify the array adapter hey we've got some new information.
So say a re adapter.
Notify data set changed.
OK.
Make sure you get an ending semi-colon there for that.
And with this you would think oh we're done Nope.
One more thing that we've got to do.
We've got to set the negative button.
So before I do that semi-colon I guess we want to do set negative button and with this we'll go ahead
and bridge just provide the text of no.
And for the unclick listener we're just going to say no because it's like hey you know what.
Just they choose no we don't want to do anything just close out the dialogue.
Write and I almost forgot this too we need to do a show on the end of this to make sure that the dialog
box gets shown.
But with this we should now be able to delete items.
Let's go ahead and run this gang and we'll see what we get here.
Yes.
Still missing the shared preferences stuff to save this data.
But at least this should be fully functional except for the savings so there's an example note here.
If I do a long press I get this.
Are you sure.
Do you want to delete this note if I say yes.
Boom like that it's gone.
Now I can add a new one and say maybe something like Hi there.
Look at that.
It didn't start with the default text name so that's good.
And if I hit back oh there's high there and I can say at maybe adding new.
No I just say what's up.
And when I can go back.
OK.
And then if I want to delete one of these like you know what I'm sick of what's up.
So I'm going to delete that.
Boom it's gone.
Or this one.
I just.
No actually I don't want to do it.
I hit No.
It's totally fine.
OK.
So nice pat on the back.
The app works completely except for the saving which arguably could be the most important part.
So let's dive into it.
So there's a couple of places that we want to add shared preference code so that we can say hey you
know we want to update things here and here so one of them is when we delete stuff we want to make a
change.
But the other one is whenever the user is you know making a new note or editing an existing note that
would be a time that we would want to make some changes.
So it's really whenever we are messing with the notes array that's when we want to mess with shared
preferences.
So let's go over to our note editor activity and right now when we're you know updating the notes Saray
to have the appropriate new information and all that stuff.
Let's go ahead an update shared preferences.
So remember to get to shared preferences.
We just got to create a new object called Shared preferences and we're going to do get application context
dot get shared preferences inside of here we've got to pass the name of the app so go ahead and just
copy this from the package and then we are going to say contex dot and we want to get the private and
I have to scroll through to find that mode private.
There we go.
OK so with that in place the next thing that we need to do is we need to convert the notes array into
something that we can put into shared preferences.
So you remember before we did all the serialization code now we're going to put it into something called
a set which is like an array but it doesn't hold the order of things which in this case for the notes
maybe the you no particular order of things doesn't matter because we have no way to change the order
of things so I think here a set would make sense and it's going to make it that much easier to work
with.
So let's go ahead and do one of those We're going to say hash.
Set.
That's what we're looking for.
And this hash that is just going to hold a bunch of strings and we're going to say OK we're going to
give this the name of set and set is going to be equal to a new capital hash set and we'd now have to
fill it though with a starting point and that's going to be our main activity.
Dodd notes.
So we're saying convert this array list into a hash set and then the hash set is something that we can
save into our shared preferences.
So then we're going to say shared preferences edit.
And on that we want to do put string set see that awesome item down there.
So we have to give it a name.
So let's just go ahead and call these notes because this is going to contain all the notes and then
we'll simply go ahead and pass in the set that we had created so we'll pass in that set there and we've
got to make sure we do apply on that so that all the saving takes place.
OK.
So that makes the saves for whenever someone edits something we also want to do you know make some changes
for never somebody is going to delete an item.
Right.
So it's almost exactly the same code that we have right here so let's just copy these three lines of
code.
Copy and look at this.
We're just going to paste it down below.
Yes I want to import those things and boom that is all we need to get things moving forward because
all this code does it says cause you know here we had updated the notes with you know notified the list
view about this stuff right like we just need to now tell shared preferences about this new piece of
information.
So this code here and here.
Exactly the same.
Now really the last place that we need to make a change inside of this app is when the app opens up
for the very first time and that's to say you know hey if there's already some data there go ahead and
put that in if there's no data we'd probably want to add like an example note and get that all up and
running.
So what we're going to do is we're going to scroll up here to our on create method and after you know
we've created the list view and stuff we'd want to get access to the shared preferences so let's go
ahead and I think we're going to go ahead and save some code here by I'm going to cut these shared preferences
here and I'm going to paste it up top to say hey this is where we're creating the shared preferences.
But then what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy let me get to the end of this so I'm going to go
and copy all of this.
OK.
And then what we'll do is we'll delete from here that we have this set up top.
And then what we'll do is here inside of and create this is where we'll get access to share preferences
so then we don't have to repeat the code and that makes this code down here just that much easier.
So we get access to these shared preferences right and that's all good then what we want to do is we
want to get information about.
Let's go ahead and bundles those together.
So before we add our example don't let's go ahead and see if we get anything out of shared preferences.
So we're going to create a new hash that is going to hold some strings and we'll just simply call this
set and we're going to say that set is equal to our shared preferences not yet string set very specific
here.
Make sure you get string set not just string the string said that we're looking for is something called
lowercase notes right.
That's the same place that we call that there.
And with this we need to provide a default in case it doesn't come through.
In this case we want to provide note like if there's nothing we want to provide no on that's our way
of saying yeah this didn't pan out.
Now we do need to make sure we do an appropriate cast here and say that this is going to be a set of
strings.
So go ahead and add that code and then we can do a cool little if statement.
So let's go ahead and set up an if statement so curly brackets.
So we want to check and see if the set is equal to nil because if it's equal to all that means we weren't
able to pull something out of shared preference which means there's probably no notes inside of there.
So if that's the case then what we want to say is.
All right let's run this code where we add an example.
No.
So we'll go ahead and paste that in and then but if not if there is something there then we want to
say hey let's take this set that we pulled out and let's add it to the notes array.
So we'll say notes now is equal to a new capital array list.
And we're going to pass in the new array list and we're going to pass in the set just like that and
it's going to create a new array list from the information in that set.
So like I said before the order may not be exactly preserved.
That's totally fine.
That's expected that's you know what you would probably see happen there but let's go ahead and run
the sap and see now if we've able to have the information saved from session to session.
So here comes the app.
Look here's an example note let me add a new one for example.
Like I say Hi there John.
And we'll hit the backbone.
Oh look.
Now there's two notes so I'm going to go ahead and close out of this and X out of notes and we'll come
back and now open up notes again and look at that.
We still have an example note.
And the Hi there John.
So let's go ahead and delete some of these.
I'm going to delete that one and I'm going to delete this one too.
Then let's go ahead and close out of this.
That didn't work like that.
Go wait till the X shows up then let's delete that come back and then we'll open up notes and look at
this.
So this is a cool little feature I thought so you can notice that it's blank and that's because we actually
still got something back from shared preferences.
But it was an empty string set so it didn't come back.
No but it came back as empty so it didn't add the example note which I think would be annoying as user
if you deleted that example no.
And it kept coming back.
That would be very annoying.
But the first time the app opens up would probably be nice to have an example notes so that people know
how things work.
But you know I can have blank notes here and if I add a new one maybe I use this as like a to do list
and I say walk the dog or something like that.
Look all of a sudden it's there.
I could use it to do it I could also use it a journaling thing like let's say and make an entry like
today I ate lots of cheese.
Right.
Something crazy like that.
This is the weirdest journal entry in the world but you know at least it's something you can use this
note at.
However you'd like.
So I hope you enjoyed creating this app.
We did some awesome stuff.
We took what we learned about shared preferences menus alert dialogs.
Put them all together here in one app and we're now at a position that you know we've learned of one
way to save storage.
Now we're going to learn how to do it with databases so you're going to learn some really cool differences
between databases and shared preferences and you know when you'll want to use each one.
They have strengths and weaknesses to each and you'll sort of see that as we move along.
So I kind of consider this the halfway point of the section.
Let's go ahead and move forward and learn about databases.